Linux File Access Permissions
Although there are already a lot of good security features built into Linux-based systems, one very important potential vulnerability can exist when local access is granted - - that is file permission based issues resulting from a user not assigning the correct permissions to files and directories. So based upon the need for proper permissions, I will go over the ways to assign permissions and show you some examples where modification may be necessary.

Basic File Permissions

Permission Groups

Each file and directory has three user based permission groups:

owner - The Owner permissions apply only the owner of the file or directory, they will not impact the actions of other users.
group - The Group permissions apply only to the group that has been assigned to the file or directory, they will not effect the actions of other users.
all users - The All Users permissions apply to all other users on the system, this is the permission group that you want to watch the most.
Permission Types
Each file or directory has three basic permission types:

read - The Read permission refers to a user's capability to read the contents of the file.
write - The Write permissions refer to a user's capability to write or modify a file or directory.
execute - The Execute permission affects a user's capability to execute a file or view the contents of a directory.

There are three types of user in linux: - root, regular and service.

The root user account
This is the main user account in Linux system. It is automatically created during the installation. It has the highest privilege in system. It can do any administrative work and can access any service. This account is intended for system administration and should be used only for this purpose. It should not be used for routine activities. It can’t be deleted. But if require, it can be disabled.

The regular user account
This is the normal user account. During the installation, one regular user account is created automatically. After the installation, we can create as many regular user accounts as we need. This account has moderate privilege. This account is intended for routine works. It can perform only the tasks for which it is allowed and can access only those files and services for which it is authorized. As per requirement, it can be disabled or deleted.

The service account
Service accounts are created by installation packages when they are installed. These accounts are used by services to run processes and execute functions. These accounts are neither intended nor should be used for routine work.
